Add Docs for Acceleration (#253)
risc0/website: docs/zkvm/developer-guide/acceleration.md

# Acceleration

## Supported Accelerated Crates

> Risc Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic rust crates. These crates include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Risc Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic Rust crates. These crates include:
```

> Risc Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic rust crates. These crates include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RISC Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic Rust crates. These crates include:
```

> Risc Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic rust crates. These crates include:

Reviewer 3: In addition to the 256 but modular multiplication accelerator, we have the SHA-256 accelerator.

Author: Should i mention it here or is the list of crates enough?

- [RustCrypto's BigInt crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-crypto-bigint/tree/risc0/use-accel)
- [RustCrypto's SHA2 crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-hashes/tree/sha2-v0.10.6-risc0)
- [RustCrypto's ECDSA crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/tree/risc0/use-accel)

> An example for how to use these crates when implementing guest code can be found [here](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/tree/main/examples/ecdsa). Note the use of the patched versions of the k256 and elliptic curve crates used in the guest's [Cargo.toml](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/blob/main/examples/ecdsa/methods/guest/Cargo.toml#L17C3-L18)

Reviewer 4: Nits for clarity and styling
```suggestion
An example of how to use these crates to accelerate ECDSA signature verification can be in the [ECDSA example](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/tree/main/examples/ecdsa). Note the [use of the patched versions](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/blob/main/examples/ecdsa/methods/guest/Cargo.toml#L17C3-L18) of the k256 and elliptic curve crates used in the guest's `Cargo.toml`.
```

## Adding Accelerator Support To Crates
It's possible to add accelerator support for your own crates by leveraging the accelerated crates above as Cargo's [patches](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-patch-section).

> An example can be found [here](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel), which shows the code changes needed to accelerate RustCrypto's ECDSA Library. The notable changes are:

Reviewer 4: Nits for clarity
```suggestion
An example of how to do this can be found in this [diff of the k256](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel) crate, which shows the code changes needed to accelerate RustCrypto's ECDSA Library. The notable changes are:
```

- The patched versions of the [BigInt and SHA2 crates](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel#diff-2e9d962a08321605940b5a657135052fbcef87b5e360662bb527c96d9a615542R17-R23)

> - The use of the accelerated [risc0 functions](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel#diff-ab10e01be1d99a874f90c9a6143bb1c64f37e04dcb220b5ab50b9273d99e0a0cR171) when applicable

Reviewer 4: Preserving Victor's footnote
```suggestion
- The use of the accelerated [risc0 functions](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel#diff-ab10e01be1d99a874f90c9a6143bb1c64f37e04dcb220b5ab50b9273d99e0a0cR171) when applicable

---

[1] This is similar to the cryptography support such as [AES-NI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set#x86_architecture_processors) or the [SHA extensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_SHA_extensions) for x86 processors. In both cases, the circuitry is extended to compute otherwise expensive operations in fewer instruction cycles.
```

# Cryptography Acceleration

> RISC Zero’s rv32im implementation includes a number of specialized extension circuits, including two “accelerators” for cryptographic functions for SHA-256 and [256-bit modular multiplication](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/466) or "bigint" multiplication. By implementing these operations directly in the “hardware” of the zkVM, programs that use these accelerators execute faster and can be proven with significantly less resources [1].

Reviewer: Adding ^ to make footnote clickable
```suggestion
RISC Zero’s rv32im implementation includes a number of specialized extension circuits, including two “accelerators” for cryptographic functions for SHA-256 and [256-bit modular multiplication](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/466) or "bigint" multiplication. By implementing these operations directly in the “hardware” of the zkVM, programs that use these accelerators execute faster and can be proven with significantly less resources [^1].
```

> RISC Zero’s rv32im implementation includes a number of specialized extension circuits, including two “accelerators” for cryptographic functions for SHA-256 and [256-bit modular multiplication](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/466) or "bigint" multiplication. By implementing these operations directly in the “hardware” of the zkVM, programs that use these accelerators execute faster and can be proven with significantly less resources [1].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RISC Zero’s rv32im implementation includes a number of specialized extension circuits, including two “accelerators” for cryptographic functions: SHA-256 and [256-bit modular multiplication](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/466), referred to as "bigint" multiplication. By implementing these operations directly in the “hardware” of the zkVM, programs that use these accelerators execute faster and can be proven with significantly less resources [1].
```

## Supported Accelerated Crates

> RISC Zero supports an optimized circuit for big integers. This accelerated circuit is integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic Rust crates. These crates include:

Reviewer: I'm assuming the SHA accelerator and the big int accelerator should be on equal footing here?
```suggestion
RISC Zero supports accelerated circuits for SHA and for big integer multiplication. 
These accelerated circuits are integrated in "patched" versions of popular cryptographic Rust crates. 
These crates include:
```

Reviewer: nvm this is redundant with brett's suggestion above.

Reviewer 3: > I'm assuming the SHA accelerator and the big int accelerator should be on equal footing here?
They should be. Note that we should refer to it as "SHA-256" since SHA alone is ambiguous.

Another note: The first sentence on this line is essentially repeated from above. It should be dropped or reworked.

Reviewer 4: I adjusted Paul's suggestion to include both recommendations (sha-256 and the repeated sentences).

- [RustCrypto's BigInt crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-crypto-bigint/tree/risc0/use-accel)

> - [RustCrypto's SHA2 crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-hashes/tree/sha2-v0.10.6-risc0)

Reviewer: This section suggests that RustCrypto's SHA2 crate is using our BigInt accelerator. Is that an error?

Reviewer: nvm brett's suggestion above will resolve this.

> - [RustCrypto's SHA2 crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-hashes/tree/sha2-v0.10.6-risc0)

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to update the link to the correct branch
```suggestion
- [RustCrypto's SHA2 crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-hashes/tree/risc0/sha2-risc0-accel)
```

- [RustCrypto's k256 crate](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/tree/risc0/use-accel/k256)

An example of how to use these crates to accelerate ECDSA signature verification can be in the [ECDSA example](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/tree/main/examples/ecdsa). Note the [use of the patched versions](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/blob/main/examples/ecdsa/methods/guest/Cargo.toml#L17C3-L18) of the k256 and elliptic curve crates used in the guest's `Cargo.toml`.

## Adding Accelerator Support To Crates

> It's possible to add accelerator support for your own crates by leveraging the accelerated crates above as Cargo's [patches](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-patch-section).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's possible to add accelerator support for your own crates by leveraging the accelerated crates above as Cargo [patches](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-patch-section).
```

> It's possible to add accelerator support for your own crates by leveraging the accelerated crates above as Cargo's [patches](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/overriding-dependencies.html#the-patch-section).

Reviewer 3: These first two lines of this section are confusing. The heading suggests that it's about implementing acceleration support for more cryptographic libraries (e.g. `p256`) but the first line is about using patches in your application?

An example of how to do this can be found in this [diff of the k256](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel) crate, which shows the code changes needed to accelerate RustCrypto's ECDSA Library. The notable changes are:
- The patched versions of the [BigInt and SHA2 crates](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel#diff-2e9d962a08321605940b5a657135052fbcef87b5e360662bb527c96d9a615542R17-R23)
- The use of the accelerated [risc0 functions](https://github.com/risc0/RustCrypto-elliptic-curves/compare/k256/v0.13.1..risc0/use-accel#diff-ab10e01be1d99a874f90c9a6143bb1c64f37e04dcb220b5ab50b9273d99e0a0cR171) when applicable

---

> [1] This is similar to the cryptography support such as [AES-NI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set#x86_architecture_processors) or the [SHA extensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_SHA_extensions) for x86 processors. In both cases, the circuitry is extended to compute otherwise expensive operations in fewer instruction cycles.

Reviewer: Adding ^ to link footnote text to in-line footnote
```suggestion
[^1] This is similar to the cryptography support such as [AES-NI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set#x86_architecture_processors) or the [SHA extensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_SHA_extensions) for x86 processors. In both cases, the circuitry is extended to compute otherwise expensive operations in fewer instruction cycles.
```

# Cryptography Acceleration
RISC Zero’s rv32im implementation includes a number of specialized extension circuits, including two “accelerators” for cryptographic functions: SHA-256 and [256-bit modular multiplication](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/pull/466), referred to as "bigint" multiplication. By implementing these operations directly in the “hardware” of the zkVM, programs that use these accelerators execute faster and can be proven with significantly less resources [1].

> ## Supported Accelerated Crates

Reviewer 4: "Supported" seems to imply that only we can incorporate acceleration into crates. May be too much for this first pass, but ideally readers would understand that they too can do so.  
```suggestion
## Accelerated Crates
```
